MAGISTER LINES: 88
The Magister is an incomprehensible, possibly divine being that possesses significant power and intelligence. His manner is calm, his voice deep, and he speaks slowly and assuringly. Despite his form likely terrifying you, when he speaks with you, he makes you feel like he has been a dear friend of yours for many years.

"$HN2Chamber2": "MAGISTER: Good, good. A project millions of years in the making will finally see its conclusion.",
"$HN2Chamber8": "MAGISTER: The Device passes inspection. Vultos, turn it on. Once it's ready...follow me onto the platform."
"$HN2EngineEntrance1": "MAGISTER: Acquarius, are you all right?"
"$HN2EngineEntrance3": "MAGISTER: Oh, there is no breaker. Here. There, the power should be off."
"$HN2EngineEntrance4": "MAGISTER: Please, do not hesitate to ask me to turn off the power for you. I do not mind."
"$HN2LibraryIntro1": "Welcome to my Grand Archives. Over the thousands of millenia I have explored the cosmos, I have hoarded the knowledge of many civilizations and recorded all of it here in this library.",
"$HN2LibraryIntro2": "Unless you are also 20 feet tall, please do not attempt to take any books from the larger shelves. For books you can safely hold, please ask Vultos for assistance with getting a translated copy in your language."
"$HN2LibrarySecret1": "MAGISTER: Vultos, it does please me that you are just as interested in the secrets of the universe as I am."
"$HN2LibrarySecret3": "MAGISTER: Vultos, are you all right? You know you can always talk to me."
"$HN2LibrarySecret5": "MAGISTER: Vultos, do you still blame yourself?"
"$HN2LibrarySecret7": "MAGISTER: May I ask when you will be ready?"
"$HN2LibrarySecret9": "MAGISTER: Oh, Vultos, I suppose I was unclear. While it will take us out there, we will be in a state where we do not need such protection. No clothing will be needed, though if I am reading this right, a thin layer of clothes should still work fine."
"$HN2LibraryXen1": "...as my travels took me to a librarian above a great atoll, we had a great trivia battle, and he was impressed with my knowledge. \"How do you know what an owl is, or an elk? You come from an alien land!\" I informed him of my status as the Magister, and began to tell him of the knowledge that I have acquired from across the cosmos, fauna and flora that you've never seen..."
"$HN2LibraryXen2": "...The Ditzian Shark is an acquatic predator that makes its home in the waters of the massive ocean planet of Subroara. It has been responsible for the extinction of multiple bird species..."
"$HN2LibraryXen3": "...Red-backed Boarnods, or Ruby Elks, are an aggressive antlered species home to the Koriander System. They like to hunt down the planet's Hunter Owls..."
"$HN2LibraryXen4": "...The Kipkip Carrot is a common meal among the planet's tiny inhabitants. It is often served with pods from the Etherbud plant. Despite being called a carrot, it tastes more like the Clapping Potato found in the Caveson System..."
"$HN2LibraryXen5": "...The Green-backed Bukrad is the largest bukrad species in the known universe, with a long body with fifty pairs of legs. It is so large, it has been reported to hunt Nomai, though its primary prey is the Mustached Star-Jackal, itself known for being able to hide from most other predators by turning invisible..."
"$HN2Camp7": "MAGISTER: Yes, quite, the flavor is...something. But I believe it's incomplete..."
"$HN2Camp9": "MAGISTER: Oh, I would not dream of it. It has quite a flavor, even on its own. But, perhaps with the several of us here, the flavor can be enhanced. Lily, do you have any of those honey crackers?"
"$HN2Camp11": "MAGISTER: Wonderful! And Acquarius, do you have any chocolate?"
"$HN2Camp13": "MAGISTER: I'd like to try with the unsalted first. Break off a square, put it a cracker, then stick on a perfectly roasted marshmallow to melt it, and...top it with another cracker. Down the hatch...it is delicious!"
"$HN2OwlkCube2-2": "MAGISTER: No, I, I am all right. This technology is quite unique. Projection is a key function the Device needs."
"$HN2OwlkCube2-4": "MAGISTER: No, thank you, I've gathered all the data I need from it already."
"$HN2MagiKirmby1": "I found this figure at a gift shop in some forgotten land. There were several versions of this character in various configurations, and almost all of them looked...adorable."
"$HN2MagiKirmby2": "But this one, this one...something about it just...fills me with a sense of ANGER and MALICE. As if...the only thing I want when I look at it is to BAN it from existence."
"$HN2MagiKirmby3": "Perhaps it was unwise to obtain something that affects me so negatively, but I am just so...intrigued by it."
"$HN2MagiStart1": "I woke up in this mysterious vessel.... I do not know who I am...what I am...or why I am here."
"$HN2MagiStart2": "What I do know: this ship is mine, it responds to my desires, and I have a myriad of these strange cubes that appear to record memories and play them at will..."
"$HN2MagiStart3": "And...I do not believe I have amnesia. I was...created here. This ship, created for me. But by whom?"
"$HN2MagiStart4": "Well, there is a whole universe out there for me to explore.... The answer must be out there somewhere."
"$HN2MagiEye1": "Today I found something...universe-shaking. A vortex, a power older than the universe, and I feel some...kinship, with it."
"$HN2MagiEye2": "I spoke with it, and it did not have any answers for me. It simply told me its purpose: to end all, that all might be born anew. Despite the tone some might interpret as sinister, it bears no ill will. Like...a decomposer, it serves a critical role in recycling death, so that more life may rise from the dead."
"$HN2MagiEye3": "But, must all end? True, this universe has a limited lifespan, but what if, what if we were not bound by this universe?"
"$HN2MagiEye4": "The idea that all must end...that is the Lie of the Universe.... There must be a way to preserve the life of this universe beyond."
"$HN2MagiFox1": "As I was making my centennial trip to the vortex to see if there had been any new developments, I received a distress signal from a nearby planet. A young creature had been stranded there in his escape pod, and with his lack of survival skills, he would have surely died of starvation, or worse."
"$HN2MagiFox2": "I rescued him, of course, but when I asked him where his home was so I could take him back, he said he had none. His kind had killed themselves off in a war, and he was the sole survivor of his race. His own planet was no longer even fit to live on. With that, he broke down sobbing."
"$HN2MagiFox3": "When he recovered, I offered him board, in return for his assistance. I had a plan to counter the Lie, and for that I would need to build a Device. However, this Device was based on connections, on community, and in order for it to function, I would need the collaboration of many others."
"$HN2MagiFox4": "Without hesitation, he agreed. I created a room for him, and we exchanged more information about each other. His name is Vultos. And my name is...my name...I...I told him that I am the Magister."
"$HN2MagiLife1": "I have encountered a major problem. I am immortal, and while the idea that a being would have a limited lifespan is a known fact to me, it has just not occurred to me just how short a life is."
"$HN2MagiLife2": "Vultos is aging quite rapidly, and while he has been an invaluable asset in the creation of the Device, he will not live nearly long enough to see it be fired."
"$HN2MagiLife3": "Fortunately, I have a solution. An Immortality Crystal, installed as part of the Device, and completely preventing aging. It will not work for our ultimate goal, but it should allow anyone on this ship to survive long enough to see the day it is reached."
"$HN2MagiOwlk1": "I passed by an inhabited moon, and in disguise I visited the population in search of someone who would be willing to work on the Device. The beings here are bird-like, with antlers."
"$HN2MagiOwlk2": "I was recommended the house of one of them, who was a young inventor, Vespa. She had created a telescope powered by flame, capable of detecting signals from space."
"$HN2MagiOwlk3": "It took some convincing, as she was understandably quite scared of the idea, but when I turned to leave, she changed her mind. It seemed that her fear of the unknown was overcome by her desire to see the cosmos she had studied all her life."
"$HN2MagiOwlk4": "On the ship, we talked about her and her kind. The name for their race roughly translates to \"Inhabitants\", but Vultos, spooked by her when she first arrived, wanted to call her \"Ghost Bird.\". She's not really a fan of the nickname, though. Considering that she seems to share traits with both owls and elks, I've presented the idea O-[REMAINING RECORDING CORRUPTED]"
"$HN2MagiPiscen1": "Today we crashed into an ocean planet. There was a malfunction with the engines, and the ship was unable to counter the massive gravity when we tried to park."
"$HN2MagiPiscen2": "Fortunately, this planet is occupied by a friendly race of semiaquatic four-armed shark people, and one of them was kind enough to come aboard and try to fix the engines."
"$HN2MagiPiscen3": "He's an electrical engineer named Acquarius, and he's quite friendly despite how intimidating poor old Vultos finds him. He's even taller than Vespa, though of course nowhere near my true stature."
"$HN2MagiPiscen4": "He was absolutely fascinated by all of the equipment on our ship, and he actually asked to join our crew. Well, welcome aboard!"
"$HN2MagiNomai1": "I came across yet another escape pod today, this one Nomaian in origin. Despite the massive capacity, there was only one member on board, by the name of Lily."
"$HN2MagiNomai2": "Like Vespa, she was an inventor, and she had created a Warp Core Anti-Distortion Safeguard. This component, meant to be equipped to their Vessels, would essentially \"ping\" the area a Vessel is attempting to warp to and check for distorted space. If such space were found, it would modify the warp coordinates slightly to prevent a potential disaster."
"$HN2MagiNomai3": "She planned to present this at a Festival, but her clan laughed at the idea. Distorted space was an unproven concept, and the component was quite expensive to create. In a fit of anger, she used an Escape Pod in an attempt to get as far from her clan as possible."
"$HN2MagiNomai4": "I, however, was very interested in her tech and theories, and welcomed her aboard."
"$HN2MagiRedeye1": "Roja: botanist and painter. Why did I let her on board?"
"$HN2MagiRedeye2": "Do not get me wrong, I am happy to have a new member on our crew, but she is so...mischevious. I fear that she is one day going to poke around in this ship where she does not belong."
"$HN2MagiRedeye3": "Sigh...I am sure she will calm herself in time."
"$HN2MagiHearthian1": "Our deadline approaches. The Device is nearly complete, but we need one more component. I went to visit the vortex again, but on a nearby planet, I caught sight of a local Hearthian who had accidentally launched themself into space via a geyser."
"$HN2MagiHearthian2": "They haven't even discovered space flight yet, but...well, I need help. Maybe this one, named Quartz, will provide the last component we need.
"$HN2Poem7": "To save the memory of a universe, that it may not die."
"$HN2EndMIntro2": "Welcome to the Outer Planes, young one, the void beyond the Wilds. I am the Magister, the one who set this all in motion."
"$HN2EndMIntro3": "You have joined us in a state that is not quite physical, in a space that is not quite in this universe. You still have some of your physical consciousness left, so you are unable to see what this place truly looks like quite yet; however, we can now finally communicate."
"$HN2EndMHub1": "What questions might you have for me?"
"$HN2EndMWhy1": "I am an entity millions, if not billions, of years old. I have powers and knowledge beyond your comprehension. I have a vessel that responds to my every whim, even modifying its shape to be whatever I wanted. But, why?"
"$HN2EndMWhy2": "I do not know where I come from. I know I was created, but I do not know who created me. I had hypothesized that whoever they were, they were not of this universe. I began to come up with an idea for a Device that would allow me to ascend beyond this universe, but my attempts and ideas went nowhere. I eventually gave up."
"$HN2EndMWhy3": "But then...I discovered the mortality of this universe. The idea that it had to end."
"$HN2EndMWhy4": "But I rejected that idea. Surely it was a lie."
"$HN2EndMWhy5": "I realized that I wanted to defy that lie. I wanted to preserve the life in this universe, by any means necessary. To that end, I revisited the idea of the Device. I was not powerful enough to stop the stars themselves from dying, but I could perhaps take at least a few people with me who did not mind the concept of surfing the unknown for eternity."
"$HN2EndMWhy6": "And then, as I began to recruit people to help build the Device, this common goal began to take shape. I began to suspect my purpose was perhaps to build a community here, and as people joined us, I had more ideas about how to construct the Device."
"$HN2EndMWhy7": "Finally, after seven of us had gathered, all from different backgrounds and time periods, we had everything we needed, and the Device was finished. I left it on, so that others interested could follow if they wished. Although, in my haste to finally ascend, I seem to have made some mistakes and did not properly prepare my vessel for foreign visitors. I apologize for making your journey more difficult than intended."
"$HN2EndMDoor1": "Sure, if you think your mind can withstand the horrors within. You shall find the door gone on your next loop."
"$HN2EndMDoor2": "Just, one question, do you like spiders?"
"$HN2EndMDoor3A": "All right, then you should be fine."
"$HN2EndMDoor3B": "I see. Do not worry then."
"$HN2EndMFind1": "I have not found my creators. But, I have been able to see beyond...I have seen other worlds, other universes, other realities."
"$HN2EndMFind2": "I saw you."
"$HN2EndMFind3": "I am unsure whether they actually were you, or other versions of you, but I saw you, exploring other worlds, other realities."
"$HN2EndMFind4": "You saw a solar neighborhood. You visited medleys of planets. You survived an alien incursion. You shared a vision."
"$HN2EndMFind5": "You went on a quest to find a banjo. You were stalked in your dreams. You explored the surface of Dark Bramble and found a Friend. You discovered an ancient codec."
"$HN2EndMFind6": "These realities moved like clockwork, in mysterious layers. Worlds were bigger on the inside, and hidden in plain sight."
"$HN2EndMFind7": "But then...then I looked beyond. I saw strange creatures. Beings beyond any of these realities. Close, I saw a dragon, a shoe, a Hearthian in Nomai clothes, a turtle, and some pink puffball."
"$HN2EndMFind8": "Further, there were more. A cow, a rock, a nebula, a Canadian, a fox, more turtles, a three-eyed cat, and many more. They seem to be a...community of their own. I began to suspect that these individuals were the creators of these realities. Perhaps even...my creators."
"$HN2EndMFind9": "And then, I realized, they had already done what I wanted. They had subverted the lie. This universe indeed did not have to truly end, and they were responsible."
"$HN2EndMFind10": "In the end, was my desire simply their desire? To contribute to increasing the lifespan of this universe?"
"$HN2EndMFind11": "If so, then I am glad to have served my purpose, and I am thankful to you for being their avatar."
"$HN2EndMFind12": "And to these beings, if they can hear me, thank you."
"$HN2EndMFind13": "I know that, truly, the lie will eventually become true. One will explore the Wilds for the final time, and the vortex will have the last laugh. But, it is because of you that this ending does not have to happen now."
"$HN2EndMFind14": "As for you, young hatchling, all will be clear to you soon, after your physical form has fully dissolved into the void. However, your connection to the time loop depends on this physical consciousness, so anything you wish to do that you wish to remember, you should do now."
"$HN2EndMFind15": "When you are ready to ascend with us, enter the shape below where you entered here."